add usage for expression filter (#753)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/feature-expression-filter.md

---
title: Filter Certain Row Changes Using SQL Expressions
---

# Filter Certain Row Changes Using SQL Expressions

## Overview

> In the process of data migration, DM provides the [Binlog Event Filter](key-features.md#binlog-event-filter) feature to filter certain types of binlog events. For example, `DELETE` event might be filtered when data is migrated to the downstream for archiving or auditing, etc. However, Binlog Event Filter feature cannot judge more specifically whether the `DELETE` event of a certain row should be filtered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the process of data migration, DM provides the [Binlog Event Filter](key-features.md#binlog-event-filter) feature to filter certain types of binlog events. For example, for archiving or auditing purposes, `DELETE` event might be filtered when data is migrated to the downstream. However, Binlog Event Filter cannot judge with a greater granularity whether the `DELETE` event of a certain row should be filtered.
```

> To solve the above issue, DM supports filtering certain row changes using SQL expressions. The binlog of ROW mode required by DM have the values of all columns in binlog event. You can configure SQL expressions according to these values. If the SQL expressions evaluate a row change as `TRUE`, DM will not migrate the row change downstream.

Reviewer: 下面这句话的对应的中文看不懂，中英文可能都需要再优化一下。
The binlog of ROW mode required by DM have the values of all columns in binlog event.

Author: addressed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/753/commits/260ec99d6dffe909ef9bf373df797d4fa4c1a05a.

> To solve the above issue, DM supports filtering certain row changes using SQL expressions. The binlog in the `ROW` format supported by DM has the values of all columns in binlog event. You can configure SQL expressions according to these values. If the SQL expressions evaluate a row change as `TRUE`, DM will not migrate the row change downstream.

Author: ```suggestion
To solve the above issue, DM supports filtering certain row changes using SQL expressions. The binlog in the `ROW` format supported by DM has the values of all columns in binlog events. You can configure SQL expressions according to these values. If the SQL expressions evaluate a row change as `TRUE`, DM will not migrate the row change downstream.
```

> **Note:**
>
> This feature only takes effect in the phase of incremental replication, not in the phase of full migration.

## Configuration example

> Like [Binlog Event Filter](key-features.md#binlog-event-filter), you also need to configure the expression-filter feature in the configuration file of data migration task, as shown below. For complete configuration and its meaning, refer to [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced)：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to [Binlog Event Filter](key-features.md#binlog-event-filter), you also need to configure the expression-filter feature in the configuration file of the data migration task, as shown below. For complete configuration and its descriptions, refer to [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced)：
```

```yml
name: test
task-mode: all

target-database:
  host: "127.0.0.1"
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: ""

mysql-instances:
  - source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
    expression-filters: ["even_c"]

expression-filter:
  even_c:
    schema: "expr_filter"
    table: "tbl"
    insert-value-expr: "c % 2 = 0"
```

> The above example configures `even_c` rule, and allows the data source whose ID is `mysql-replica-01` to refer this rule.The meaning of `even_c` is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example configures `even_c` rule, and allows the data source whose ID is `mysql-replica-01` to refer this rule. The meaning of `even_c` is:
```

For the `tbl` table in the `expr_filter` shema, when the value of the inserted `c` is even (`c % 2 = 0`), the inserted statement will not be migrated downstream.

The usage result of this rule is shown below.

Insert the following data in the upstream data source:

```sql
INSERT INTO tbl(id, c) VALUES (1, 1), (2, 2), (3, 3), (4, 4);
```

Then query the `tbl` table downstream and you can find that only rows with an odd value of `c` are migrated downstream:

```sql
MySQL [test]> select * from tbl;
+------+------+
| id   | c    |
+------+------+
|    1 |    1 |
|    3 |    3 |
+------+------+
2 rows in set (0.001 sec)
```

## Configuration parameters and rule descriptions

> - `schema`: The name of upstream database to be matched. Wildcard match or regular match is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `schema`: The name of the upstream database to be matched. Wildcard match or regular match is not supported.
```

> - `table`: The name of upstream table to be matched. Wildcard match or regular match is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `table`: The name of the upstream table to be matched. Wildcard match or regular match is not supported.
```

> - `insert-value-expr`: To configure an expression which takes effect on the value of binlog event (WRITE_ROWS_EVENT) of INSERT type. It cannot appear in a same configuration item with `update-old-value-expr`, `update-new-value-expr`, and `delete-value-expr`.

Reviewer: 1 需要确认，不能同时和三个表达式使用，还是不能和三个表达式中的任意一个同时使用。
2 It cannot appear 那句话建议改成 
Do not use it with  `update-old-value-expr`, `update-new-value-expr`, and `delete-value-expr` in the same configuration item.
如果是不能与任意一个同时使用，要改成：
Do not use it with  `update-old-value-expr`, `update-new-value-expr`, or `delete-value-expr` in the same configuration item.
3 To configure 都改成 Specifies 
4 下面其他几个描述也都同步更新下。

> - `update-old-value-expr`：To configure an expression which takes effect on the old value of binlog event (UPDATE_ROWS_EVENT)  of UPDATE type. It cannot appear in a same configuration item with `insert-value-expr` and `delete-value-expr`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `update-old-value-expr`：To configure an expression which takes effect on the old value of binlog event (UPDATE_ROWS_EVENT) of UPDATE type. It cannot appear in a same configuration item with `insert-value-expr` and `delete-value-expr`.
```

- `delete-value-expr`：To configure an expression which takes effect on the value of binlog event (DELETE_ROWS_EVENT) of DELETE type. It cannot appear in a same configuration item with`insert-value-expr`, `update-old-value-expr`, and `update-new-value-expr`.

> **Note:**
>
> You can configure `update-old-value-expr` and `update-new-value-expr` at the same time.
>
> - When you configure `update-old-value-expr` and `update-new-value-expr` at the same time, the row changes where updated old value meets the rule of `update-old-value-expr` **and** the updated new value meets the rule of `update-new-value-expr` will be filtered out.
> - When you only configure one parameter, the statement you configure will decide whether to filter **the whole row changes**, which means the delete event of an old value and the insert event of a new value will be filtered out as a whole.

SQL expressions can involve one or more columns. You can also use the SQL functions TiDB supports, such as `c % 2 = 0`, `a*a + b*b = c*c`, and `ts > NOW()`.

> The timezone of TIMESTAMP is UTC by default. You can use `c_timestamp = '2021-01-01 12:34:56.5678+08:00'` to show the specified timezone.

Reviewer: 中文是 显式指定时区，不是 显示指定时区。有误解。修改如下
```suggestion
The timezone of TIMESTAMP is UTC by default. You can use `c_timestamp = '2021-01-01 12:34:56.5678+08:00'` to specify the timezone explicitly.
```

> You can define multiple filter rules under the configuration item `expression-filter`. By refering the rules you need in the configuration item of `expression-filters` in the upstream data source, the rules can take effect. When multiple rules take effect, matching **any** of the rules cause a row change to be filtered.

Author: ```suggestion
You can define multiple filter rules under the configuration item `expression-filter`. By refering the rules you need in the configuration item of `expression-filters` in the upstream data source, the rules can take effect. When multiple rules take effect, matching **any** of the rules causes a row change to be filtered.
```

> You can define multiple filter rules under the configuration item `expression-filter`. By refering the rules you need in the configuration item of `expression-filters` in the upstream data source, the rules can take effect. When multiple rules take effect, matching **any** zh/task-configuration-file-full.mdof the rules cause a row change to be filtered.

Reviewer 2: not URLed

> You can define multiple filter rules under the configuration item `expression-filter`. By refering the rules you need in the configuration item of `expression-filters` in the upstream data source, the rules can take effect. When multiple rules take effect, matching **any** zh/task-configuration-file-full.mdof the rules cause a row change to be filtered.

Author: ```suggestion
You can define multiple filter rules under the configuration item `expression-filter`. By refering the rules you need in the configuration item of `expression-filters` in the upstream data source, the rules can take effect. When multiple rules take effect, matching **any** of the rules cause a row change to be filtered.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Setting too many expression filters for a table increases the computing overhead of DM， which might slow down data migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Setting too many expression filters for a table increases the computing overhead of DM， which might impede data migration.
```
